---
boss: David Tamborero
title: Molecular tumor board
shortname: mtb
---
Our objective is to support the clinical decision-making based on the interpretation of the omics data from the patient tumors. Precision oncology relies on the accurate discovery and interpretation of tumor alterations, and vast efforts are ongoing to better understand their significance for the diagnosis, prognosis and therapy selection of the disease. However, the knowledge continuously generated by the community is scattered across a multitude of resources that follow disparate data models, which impedes the use of this information in the clinical setting. Moreover, most of the variants that are observed in a tumor are of unknown significance and additional computational tools are required to estimate their relevance.

To address these challenges, we have developed the Molecular Tumor Board (MTB) portal, a platform for the annotation and distribution of tumor omics data. The MTB portal employs state-of-the-art knowledge bases and bioinformatics tools to interpret the biological and clinical significance of the tumor alterations according to distinct levels of evidence. On the one hand, the use of the portal guarantees that clinical decisions such as the inclusion of the patient in a clinical trial, the off-label use of anti-cancer drugs or the need for genomic counseling are based on the most updated and comprehensive knowledge that is currently available. On the other, the use of a centralized framework to annotate and collect the results of these efforts will provide the resource to generate novel knowledge and better guide these same decisions in the patients of the future.

The MTB portal is currently used by the seven leading european oncology centers forming the [Cancer Core Europe](https://www.cancercoreeurope.eu/). At present, the MTB portal supports genomic data analyses, but we aim to implement interpretation of other omics data types as transcriptomics, proteomics and ex-vivo drug testing results.
